so yeah the next day in court is coming
up in December in so many ways I have
already won durianrider has been
discredited his career on YouTube is
over his ability to hurt other people is
over his ability to harm the future of
the vegan movement is over and one by
one all the people who supported him
woke up I've spoken to many of these
people directly and let me tell you when
you asked them what were you thinking
why did you ever support this guy you
feel like you're talking to somebody
who's woken up from a dream or I guess
the better way to put it is that woke up
from a dream and then in hindsight they
realized it was a nightmare most of
these people who supported during Ryder
when they look back at it they can't
believe they made this mistake
themselves and what durianrider proved
is that he does not have the personal
integrity to be the most important vegan
activist in the world which is what he
claimed he was he doesn't deserve that
title he didn't earn it he didn't earn
your trust on the contrary he's taken
the name of veganism and dragged it
through the mud he's taken your trust
and dragged it through the mud and now
his career is over
but if the case gets dismissed or if it
ends in conclusively or in a
dissatisfactory matter I think we all
know that in the court of public opinion
judgment has been handed down and now
with the deletion of during Ryder's
channel I think I can safely say he is
never gonna victimize anyone again the
way he tried to make a victim out of me
and failed and the way he really did
victimize and bully harass defame and
slander so many people before me so many
people who couldn't stand up for
themselves so many people who really
suffered a bonus Yin
[Music]
uh-uh new yen one of the more hilarious
moments in the runoff between Donald
Trump and Hillary Clinton in what turned
out to be the election of Donald Trump
during the final formal debate between
the two of them there was a question
from the audience although it was very
clearly a pre-selected
screen the question from the audience
nothing spontaneous about it question
came from the audience could the two
opponents say something positive could
each say something positive about the
other for the sake of having a more
civil and mutually respectful debate and
you know Hillary Clinton just barely
managed to say something flattering
about Donald Trump being a good parent
being good father sure about that one
the Trump for his part I think he just
completely failed to say anything
positive about about Hillary he's not
really a master of improvisation and
he's definitely not a master of flattery
you know in a much deeper and more
meaningful way when I have had conflicts
with professors and believe me at the
University of Toronto at University of
Victoria at about six other universities
I have had conflicts with professors one
of the things I always tried to do was
take the time go to the library and look
up their publications so that I had
something positive to say about them you
know when a face-to-face meeting or in a
meeting chaired by the Ombudsman of the
Dean or whatever the situation was so
you know I would go to the library and
I'm trying to look up whatever books
they had published sometimes they hadn't
published books I'd have to get their
original PhD thesis I'd have to get some
obscure article that managed to publish
but that put me in a position to say
something positive about my opponent in
the debate in whatever the situation was
or I could sit down and say oh you know
I you know I read your book oh you know
I read your PhD thesis and I wish I
could tell you that I led to a really
positive outcomes most of the occasions
I couldn't remember it just caused the
professor to be stunned and astonished
and amazed like it had never occurred to
them that anyone actually would read
or tells you something sad about the
state of academia in the 21st century
look I remember once I sat down with the
professor where wasn't really a conflict
that was actually just meeting with him
to talk about graduate school options
both MA and PhD options and I had his
PhD theses with me on paper so you know
I had read it I also had proof that read
it you know with me and I was really
prepared to talk about details I didn't
just want to make a V blandishments
where he'd think that I hadn't actually
done the reading but I remember he was
very uncomfortable with talking about
any details in there so it's like
flattering and positive I've done to to
reach out to professor's sorry I mean
when I say flattering the point is you
read their book you read their PhD
thesis and even if you think 90% of it
is garbage you figure out the 10% you
could say something positive about it
say oh you know I really like I really
like the work you did on this issue I
really like what you took it this way so
you know in my interactions with both
freelee and durianrider I have normally
made it a point to have something
positive to say if you guys watch my own
videos on freely my old videos on freely
I always took the time to note in a few
of freelee's videos she was just talking
about her own life experience she was
just talking about you know her history
as a waitress as a kind of bartender the
different job she had different
relationships you'd been in there were
some videos about freely where she was
just talking about her own life talking
about things she knew about and cared
about and where she was keeping it real
and those videos I can respect that side
that aspect of what she did on YouTube I
can regard as positive and I can respect
a lot of other things she does I don't
respect a lot of the things she has done
and is doing I regard is tremendously
negative as harmful to people as
dangerous you know dangerous health
advice dangerous dietary advice and so
on as really damaging to to individual
people and as damaging to veganism as a
movement and I've been honest about that
also right I try to be honest about both
sides
you know with a guy like durianrider
there's not much positive I can say but
you know there is one thing is six in my
mind and remember
two people in in Chiangmai when I was
there over a year ago I remember there
was this one context and not gonna help
tell the whole story where you know
durianrider and actually the context did
include a lot of kind of lives lies and
half-truths and defamations with a
strange situation he'd put himself in
where he was creating drama but he said
about himself that he doesn't let
conflicts with individual people he used
coarse language I'm leaving out about
three swear words and in paraphrases but
he says he doesn't let conflicts with
individual people get in the way of his
personal goals and the example was you
know if what he wanted to do that day
was right his bicycle up a hill then the
fact that he had this conflict the fact
that somebody punched him in the face
allegedly the fact that he you know had
some kind of traumatic experience that
day didn't matter he wasn't gonna let
that slow him down in the least he
wouldn't let a personal conflict get in
the way the pursuit of those particular
goals I remember you know sitting there
or read that confident that Wow okay you
know there's there's one little piece of
the durianrider personal philosophy that
I can really relate to positively now I
don't know if it's true I don't know if
he lives by that I think I've seen a lot
of examples of durianrider letting
personal conflicts completely derail his
personal goals completely take over his
life and also completely change the
content on his youtube channel and that
is one way to draw up winners and losers
today who is doing what they really want
to do in their lives and digitally
you're on YouTube and who's not when I
look at during writers Channel I saw his
channel the day before it was deleted
every so often I've got to check up on
his channel just to see if there's
anything material related to the court
case for me to know but I remember
looking at the list of recent videos on
his channel the day before his channel
was deleted and just being amazed at
what a large percentage of it was
clickbait what a large percentage of it
was you know pictures of scantily clad
women women showing their breasts for no
reason
and there's barely any relationship
between the title of the video and the
content of the video and the breasts of
the half-naked women just so many videos
reaching out for those cheap extraneous
views you know and I don't know if that
for him is a struggle to make money or
if it's struggle to be famous or a
struggle to stay relevant but it is
really obvious that it's a struggle and
my channel same period of time if you
look at what's on my channel I'm doing
exactly what it is I want to do I'm
doing exactly what it is I came on
YouTube to do in the first place and
what I want to do in the future I mean
I've had in recent videos talking about
politics of Asia immigration policy in
Canada quite a couple different videos
talking about the Kree the Ojibwe First
Nations indigenous peoples in Canada
study of languages of course I've
continued to have a lot of videos about
vegan politics and what's going on in
veganism but it's not the only topic on
my channel that's not what I'm here to
do and I've continued to have a deep and
meaningful connection with a small
audience which is exactly what I wanted
all along I was never thinking my
channel was gonna reach tens of
thousands of people but I knew I could
have a really meaningful connection with
a few hundred people and again can
preferred to having a conversation in a
coffee shop that's really something if I
have a conversation with the coffee shop
maybe I just reach one person maybe two
or three but to me what I'm on here to
YouTube
what am you're on YouTube to do is to
make friendships to recruit colleagues
ultimately to recruit colleagues to
really cooperate and collaborate in the
vegan movement to engage in you know
political lobbying make the world a
better place make the world a different
place have an impact in Canadian
politics and so on and yeah I want to
come on here and keep it real whether
it's talking about my divorce talking
about my personal life talking about
dating talking about romance talking
about veganism politics philosophy or
any of those matters so there are
different ways to look at this situation
say who's winning and who's losing
durianrider completely discredited
himself and you know my court case is
still not over it's still not resolved I
still have another court date coming up
I hope it's the last court date but
probably won't be it's a really weird
mental exercise to ask yourself well
what if my court case had wrapped up in
record time what if the whole thing had
been over in three months or six months
you know as in a parallel universe if
that had happened then we never would
have seen the bizarre process that we
have seen here on YouTube in the last
year where one by one all of the people
who supported durianrider were realized
he was impossible to support where one
by one people including his closest
friends realized that he had been lying
to them he had been lying to the public
on YouTube and his some extent during
Ryder had been lying to himself so give
an example you know a guy who I think is
really during Ryder's last friend his
best friend a close personal friend of
his there's this youtuber called angry
vegan angry vegan has lived in Durham
writers house for several months I think
six months but for a number of months he
lived interim writers house they have
videos with a joke above the fact that
he still owes during writer rent in this
kind of thing I assume that is just a
joke but they've lived together they
spent time together they're about as
close friends as any two adult
heterosexual man men can be they are
close personal friends and angry vegans
one of the last people still supports
during Ryder
angry vegan met me and talked to me face
to face for more than an hour
angry vegan asked to see the receipts
from the court case and I sent him
literal receipts you know I can talk a
little bit more about that but you know
it's still a ridiculous - people say
they want to seek receipts and you
wouldn't want to see the receipts to see
the receipts at this point but a receipt
is a receipt that's all it is tells you
how much was paid and when it was paid
that's about it you know and it made it
worse anyway this is a ridiculous thing
on the internet especially when you're
the situation the internet like I'm in I
show my passport on camera and
durianrider says it's a fake passport so
if I show receipts are the internet
obviously he's just gonna say they're
fake receipts we've kind of been through
this a few times with durianrider
it's really counterproductive but anyway
you know
angry vegan I showed him legal documents
I showed him receipts but also I just
said to him look man you can go to the
courthouse if you don't believe me just
go to the courthouse which is what
during murder should have done and look
up the case and I talked him through how
to do that so I don't believe he went on
a day when court was in session you know
when my case was in session I believe he
just went up there and he looked at the
you know the writing on the wall quite
literally and he confirmed that the case
was real and ongoing and when the next
hearing was and his mind was blown
because of course he realized in that
moment the extent to which durianrider
had lied to him but everything now in my
face-to-face conversation with him he
did reflect also on his own sense of
disappointment with how during writer
had lied to him about everything even
though durianrider has admitted publicly
to using performance-enhancing drugs but
performance ANSI drugs I mean drugs like
steroids steroids and similar drugs not
a soldier steroids but angry vegans said
to me that even though he knew that even
though he'd seen durianrider talking on
the internet admitting the fact that he
has a history of using this type of drug
angry vegans said to me how shocked and
demoralized he felt when he was actually
at durian writers house and he saw
syringes in the garbage can so during
writer that's one young man who really
looked up to you
that's one young man who really came
here on YouTube and was trying to make
money the durianrider way trying to have
a career as a youtuber a guy who doesn't
have formal education who doesn't have a
formal career doesn't have you know a
lot a job opportunity for word to that's
a guy who's really been working hard to
emulate you daring writer copy you in
many ways he is he is your friend but
he's also your fan and in a lot of ways
you broke his heart you let him down and
I got to see that I got to see that up
close face to face with him and then I
got to hear back about it when he rode
his bicycle up to the courthouse and saw
that the court case was real and when he
told durianrider
which during writer must have known all
along when he told her in writer hey you
know they're a minor the court case is
real because he'd gone to the courthouse
and confirmed it himself independently
doesn't have to dalat rely on my word
or something you went and confirmed it
during writers response was to tell
angry vegan keep it quiet nobody needs
to know so to what extent during Ryder
has been lying all along that he always
knew it was a real court case is not
even worth speculating about but that
was his response when people who were
close to him in his life and others have
talked to me angry vegan is not the only
guy closed during writers come forward
and talk to me when they said that's him
now beyond that I mean there's been this
cavalcade over the last year I mean it's
like falling dominoes you know the first
big one to fall was ain't was some vegan
gains Richard vegan gains it's hard to
remember now vegan gains used to be a
durianrider supporter they had a kind of
strategic alliance on YouTube vegan
gains turned against their aim Rider
because of me because of my case because
of my situation because of what Durand
writer did against me and that was a
huge turning point within our tiny
little scene within our tiny Demi Moore
Joey carb strong turned against during
Ryder I mean so many I mean you know uh
I can't attempt to list them all but I
mean people like Joey carps are even
Jason Posey know before him a lot of
these people were his close personal
friends I actually I mean durianrider
claims that he and Richard were close
personal friends too
I assume that was true to some extent
although I assume you know Jeremiah is
also exaggerating and lying about to
some extent because during Ryder tends
to exaggerate lie about everything
but a lot of these people were as close
personal friends durianrider didn't just
discredit himself in front of his
audience he discredited himself with the
people who knew him most closely who
trusted most closely and one by one over
a period of more than a year all of them
turned against them and were checked at
him you know another one being so cold
glucose Network sir glucose network the
name of his channel but Abdullah Zainab
again he was a huge German writer
supporter
someone who really believed in and I
think idolized durianrider and someone
who's trying to imitate and emulate
German writer success and even that guy
had to eventually you know
turn on turn against tearing lighter so
it's a really strange you know
hypothetical scenario what if the court
case in Thailand had been quick and
decisive what if it happened right away
what did that win in three months that
would have been a much more shocking
situation for the whole vegan scene and
those people wouldn't have had the long
deliberative process of reflecting on
what durianrider had said what
durianrider had done asking themselves
who is this guy really and what does any
of this mean for the future of the vegan
movement now also in that same period of
time I really do think this is a victory
for me and for people like me what we've
seen is lifestyle activism being totally
discredited the permanent vacation being
abandoned as the leading paradigm in
vegan activism so guys I get a lot of
email I get a lot of messages on patreon
I get a lot of messages from all
different sources so I forget where this
message came from but from somewhere in
Europe could have been Poland I really
forget I remember I got a message from
somewhere in Europe where the vegan
movement is not very strong and the
person was saying to me with some
frustration look you know locally here
this lifestyle activism this perminov
aqune activism it totally took over
formal vegan movements there were formal
vegan movements that previously had kind
of imitated Petta
had imitated People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals in the United
States that wasn't very successful and
they said they had switched over
apparently due to the success of people
like freelee and durianrider they'd
switched over to this advocacy of
personal beauty and weight loss and yoga
pants and sport and you know this this
lifestyle glorifying activism that they
were trying to imitate what was going on
so that email was to me a striking whoa
because that was talking about formal or
formal vegan political organizations
deep politicizing themselves and going
over to imitating that that lifestyle
like this now there are a few other you
know planks in the deck you know if
you're really telling that history I do
think the short term success of a weight
loss book called the skinny [ __ ] has to
be remembered
people already forget that that was a
huge step there was the success of the
skinny [ __ ] there was the sucess
success of a book by dr. Greger called
how not to die and then yeah there was
the success short term meteoric success
of freely and a number of other people
like freely and that convinced a lot of
people that lifestyle activism was the
future and in the same period of time
during which my court case made
incredibly little progress was sitting
around you know in court in Thailand
basically people stopped regarding
lifestyle activism of the future and
they started regarding lifestyle
activism as the past now I am not the
only voice in that debate but I was one
of the first I was one of the loudest I
was the most consistent and of course
the fact that durianrider debated me the
fact that he responded to me the fact
that he you know attacked my criticism
of the permanent vacation and lifestyle
activism then also elevated the
significance my critique where people
could realize hey I was hitting home I
was offering criticism that mattered to
the people being criticized and you know
I think that is true across the board
I've talked to those people and a lot of
those people have changed a lot of those
people have moved on I don't have to
name names in a lot of ways the scene
has collapsed and an individual level
people made the choice to go back to
school to go back to having a real job
the dream of you know the dream were the
nightmare of earning your living as a
so-called full-time activist when what
you're doing is not even activism that
has gone out of style and new fashions
have come in to replace it you know I
would say currently Joey Karp Strong's
method is fashionable Earthling EDS
method is fashionable and currently I
don't think it's gonna last
what vegan gains has been doing with
these long format debates via you know
live-streaming debates of the internet
between vegans meters that's currently
fashionable now each of those has its
own advantages and disadvantages we
could do in a critique about that but
fundamentally all of them all of them
are vastly superior to the yoga pants'
weight-loss cult of personal beauty
called the personality lifestyle
activist and permanent vacation paradigm
that I was criticizing here on YouTube
for a period of about two years that's
over and now of course the other thing
that's over is durian writers career and
during writers influence so you know
obviously I played a role in I played a
role in the collapse of his career and
his influence but the largest role goes
to durianrider himself he destroyed his
own credibility more than I could have
ever destroyed his credibility simply
put you know he made bad choices in
terms of what is the situation with the
case today again I don't even get
questions about this anymore which is
another sense in which I have one if it
was the case that tons of people had a
lot of interest in this that might be a
bad sign frankly for me the less public
interest there is in the case the better
because you know I'm not trying to make
durianrider famous again I'm really not
in December in mid-december
I have another day in court in Chiang
Mai
the most recent a couple months ago the
last court date in Chiang Mai a bunch of
vegans attended they went just to have a
look so Sam of the vegan went to my last
court date and Joe best I've seen a
photograph of Joe best in court he
showed up in my day in court so this is
another thing discredited during Ryder
and Shanghai to a massive extent the
fact that there were so many people
there who saw for themselves that the
court case is ongoing who actually
showed up in court and were witnesses to
the ongoing proceedings against the rain
writer I don't get I don't receive
questions about the finances from anyone
except durianrider during writer did
write to me the other day asking what
happened to the $6,500 the $6,500 itself
that the fee for the for the lawyer that
went directly to the lawyer and again
I've shown receipts there of course I
mean the problem is we live in a world
people said well that receipts can be
faked of course they can be faked
you think about like if you actually go
to a shop and buy something what is a
receipt a receipt is a piece of paper
printed out from a compete
anyone can print out that piece of paper
but you know also in this case we're
talking about a receipt that's sent by
email so it's just it's an email
attachment sent to me from my lawyer but
again the way to confirm this is to go
to the courthouse if you want to you can
phone up my law firm or something you
know if you eat a journalist for example
really want to verify this a journalist
could make those phone calls or take
those steps you know whether it's to the
courthouse to the law firm what have you
to verify listens but the receipt itself
is not a magical solution to this this
problem a problem that's only created by
durianrider and only for very
transparently self-serving interests but
that went from the crowdfunding website
directly to the law firm so it was never
in my bank account if that money was
transferred directly from the
crowdfunding site to to the law firm and
I'm glad that squeaked in in terms of
the exchange rate that was just enough
money and ty bought at the time so that
was a that was a near-miss thing
actually it was not I was not happy
about that at the time long story but a
hard it was to even get that that
transfer done from my crappy bank in in
Kunming China was love me at the time
you know there also is some money that
was not sent to the crowdfunding site
that was sent to PayPal the money that
was sent to PayPal which will be a
couple hundred extra dollars or maybe
over one thousand dollars I was never
able to get the money out of PayPal when
I go back to Canada I can try I am
assuming that the money from PayPal is
much less than the amount I've spent
just flying back and forth to Thailand
to chiang mai thailand in order to
attend the court date but I won't know
until I get back to Canada presumably
get on the phone with PayPal and then
from a fixed address in Canada with a
Canadian bank account struggle to try to
get PayPal to send me that money I mean
I guess I'm optimistic and even assuming
once I'm back in Canada I'll be able to
get the money people it's possible I'll
never be able to get it that is that is
possible but you know for whatever
reason when I was in China and I did
believe me I got on the phone I made
long-distance phone calls to PayPal I
had angry
email back and forth and PayPal couldn't
do it or wouldn't do it I'd assumed
that's partly just because it was a bank
account in China but obviously it's it's
a it's a real black market against
PayPal because I was there I'm saying
look I can send you guys photographs of
my you know my passport in my visa
proving that it's really me I'm really
in China this is really my bank account
look what's the problem Iran but I could
never get a straight answer to PayPal so
if there's an extra 1,000 bucks that was
donated by a PayPal not via the
crowdfunding site it's possible I'll
collect that eventually as possible I
never will and then I'll just looked at
look at well I've had to repeatedly fly
back and forth to Chiang Mai just to the
core case and say well are we just gonna
say that balance is out or is there any
significant difference where Iran and I
will yeah I mean I if there's some
difference I can give some of the two to
a vegan charity or what-have-you but at
this point you know I just say I'll
cross that bridge and get it because it
has been impossible
working with PayPal from my Garret in
you know and China that has really been
impossible and again if anyone if anyone
doesn't believe it you can really
quickly Google bad experiences with
PayPal tons of people have bad
experiences it's hilarious durianrider
attacked me on that too claiming that
nobody nobody has truthful with
international international financial
transfers in PayPal well believe me
plenty of us have trouble with
international finance financial
transfers if they fell I'm just one of
them so yeah the next day in court is
coming up in December in so many ways I
have already won durianrider has been
discredited his career on YouTube is
over his ability to hurt other people is
over his ability to harm the future of
the vegan movement is over and one by
one all the people who supported him
woke up and like I've spoken to Joey
carbs strong directly I've spoken to
Richard vegan gains directly I've spoken
to many of these people directly and let
me tell you when you asked them what
were you thinking why did you ever
support this guy you feel like you're
talking to somebody who's woken up from
a dream or I guess a better way to put
it is they woke up from a dream and then
in hind
site they realized it was a nightmare
most of these people who supported
during Ryder when they look back at it
they can't believe they made this
mistake themselves they can't believe it
and I've made videos in the past talking
about the mix of motives why were people
swept up in this enthusiasm and why is
it now that it seems so Retta below in
retrospect guys in politics leadership
matters it really matters whether you
put your faith in someone like during
Ryder whether you put your your faith in
someone like Donald Trump whether you
put your trust and hopes in one person
rather than another can matter it can be
much more decisive than the particular
principles or the particular political
platform you're choosing to support in
the past I've pointed out that in terms
of a political platform during a writer
and I have a remarkable amount in common
we're both very hard and true to be
anti-drug you know anti marijuana
anti alcohol even anti caffeine like we
have stuff in common that way I also
have a background doing long distance
cycling I've also lived in Thailand for
years you know Thailand Laos Cambodia
actually there's a lot of common ground
there and in terms of aspirations for
the future of vegan activism overtly
stated you know aspirations you could
say he and I have a lot in common too
but there are differences of principle
and there are differences of person and
personal integrity and what durianrider
proved is that he does not have the
personal integrity to be the most
important vegan activist in the world
which is what he claimed he was he
doesn't deserve that title he didn't
earn it he didn't earn your trust on the
contrary he's taken the name of veganism
and dragged it through the mud he's
taken your trust and dragged it through
the mud and now his career is over
if we win in court it'll be a nice
cherry on top but amazingly while this
court case has been spinning its wheels
has been wasting so much time with
paperwork and process which I could talk
more about but nobody even wants to know
all the details of the paperwork in the
process we have seen chapter after
chapter unfold in that story sure I'd
love to win in court but if the case
gets dismissed or if it ends in
conclusively or in a dissatisfactory
matter I think we all know that in the
court of public opinion the judgment has
been handed down and now with the
deletion of during writers Channel I
think I can safely say he is never gonna
victimize anyone again the way he tried
to make a victim out of me and failed
and the way he really did victimize and
bully harass defame and slander so many
people before me so many people who
couldn't stand up for themselves so many
people who really suffered and hey in
case you think I'm so fitting I'll just
say again I see this in a political and
historical context you know yeah I've
suffered yeah it's been hard on me it's
been a it's been a strange process in so
many ways I didn't ask for this fight
but when the fight was brought to me I
played to win however if you're looking
at this in the context of other
political struggles for civil rights for
human rights for any given political
cause who has suffered less for me to
step up and play my role as a leader in
vegan activism what did I have to do I
wrote a children's story book I'm paying
an illustrator to illustrate the story
about I'm going to publish this story
book I come on YouTube and talk about my
feelings
you know I didn't have to live in a cave
I didn't have to lead a revolution well
I didn't have to go through any of the
other horrors that a lot of other
political leaders go through in new new
political movements I didn't have to
spend the day sitting in jail and we do
still have a lot of questions about
illegal methods of activism and veganism
we have new questions being raised right
now again by direct action everywhere
DXE about
methods and people facing prison
sentences and so on which I don't
support
I really don't support that stuff people
I haven't had to suffer in any of those
ways so yes this did bring an unwanted
crisis into my life however I don't feel
sort of myself in the slightest apart
from the fact that I'm winning
apart from the fact that at this point I
can say in that past tense I already won
compared to any other political leader
any other movement past present or
future who has suffered less
[Music]
ba Lu Ciel